Hey guys! The purpose of this is to get Networked Player
Movement working, so by the end of the video you will
understand a bit more about how players work and we'll end up with
three copies like this and we'll almost have
Networked Movement working between them, where moving
from one screen will result in only
movement of one of the players, only
the local player, but we'll run into some trouble as well
when we try and introduce a third player and a build. And then, we will
see how to fix that in the following lecture. But for now, we're going to get as
far as having your input filtered, between a Client
and a Host, so that if you
spin up yourself a Host on your machine
here and get the Client on the Host as
well. And then, if we spin up over there,
and make ourself a LAN Client, you'll see that
if I reach over to the PC that I'm moving the left hand of those two
cylinders, and over here on the host, I'm
moving the right hand of the two cylinders.
What we're not getting yet is that the translation is not being
moved across, from one to the other, but we're doing
the input filtering in this lecture, and then, we're going to layer
on the transmission of the translation, in the
next lecture.
OK, so players are
interesting things in multiplayer games, because of course, when we distribute
our code, then we have to do something
to make sure we can distinguish one player from
another. So, you'll see that problem and then we'll solve it, but firstly,
let's just get the player moving.
So, I want you to do that actually. I just want you to use Cross-
Platform Input to get the player moving.
Test the player moves on the Host and see what happens,
if you try controlling the player on a
separate Client, preferably on a different computer or a mobile device.
So, you've done this before, used a Cross-Platform Input Manager
and I'll see you in just a moment!
So welcome back! So,
let's make this nice and simple. I'm going to create myself a folder actually, and I'm going to call
it Players, ambitiously, because I believe I'm going to be
having more than one Player Prefab. I'm going to plop my,
pop even my Player in there, make a material. I'm just
going to call it Player1, from the moment, or just Player,
and applying the material to the prefab. It looks like it hasn't worked
but it actually has. You can see it in the Materials List here.
Fantastic! So, a new script. Let's have a C# script
called just Player, for the moment. It's probably only going
to be responsible for movement, but for now I'm just going to call it
Player. And I'm going to go into the script, and of course, I'm
going to import a new name space, using UnityEngine.
Oh no, it's not Unity Engine, is it? Using
UnityStandardAssets. Now, that doesn't
exist. Why doesn't it exist? Simply because it's not
imported. So, I'm going to get the Cross-Platform
Input Package and take the whole lot. Why am
I using Cross-Platform Input? Simply because I want my gamepad to work
and if I switch to mobile and I've got
a mobile UI, I want that to come on and I want keys to work. I want
the whole lot. I want my cake and eat it. So, in order to do that,
I'm going to use the UnityStandardAssets.
CrossPlatform
Input; name space. Fantastic!
Alright, so now it's simply a question of doing
a fairly standard thing, with inputs. We've done this
a lot of times, I'm going to go through it real quick. We're going to go through a private
Vector3 input value.
You could use a Vector2 I guess, but I'm going to
use a Vector3. Nothing needs to be done on Start.
And then, I'm just going to iterate through, inputValue.x
So take the X component... is the
CrossPlatformInputManager.GetAxis
and then, let's take the Horizontal Axis for X,
as defined in the Input
setup. And then, let's
explicitly set the
Y value, I think.
Dot y =
0 float. Now, you can do that. It'll cast...
Well, actually .y is a float, so 0
float is the right type. InputValue.y is a float.
So, I was thinking it looks strange when it's a vector on one
side but actually it's not, its float is on both.
OK, so finally inputValue
.z =, and it's very similar
to this other CrossPlatformInputManager.
And we have ("Vertical"); OK.
So, we've taken our X, Y, and Z every frame, and then,
we simply go transform.Translate
and by the (inputValue);
I'm going to leave it unscaled, for the moment, and see what happens.
OK, I need to close Unity, because
my controller, my PS4 Controller, is not currently
connected to the machine. So, you turn it on, you find your Blue Tooth
Settings, you connect it...
Let's just give it a second.
It may connect on its own, without... Yeah!
Wirelss Controller and then reopen Unity.
See if Unity doesnt see the input
controller, the PS4 Controller when it starts, it just simply
won't work. Alright, so for local control we're going to try Start Host
and then Client Ready. And there we go! Look I can move forward, backwards,
left, and right. It's kind of a boring gray color, but I'm moving it with my
analog control. Sure I could put a speed scaling in here.
I can also use the Cursor Keys. This is me using the Cursor Keys
or W, S, A, D, or anything else that's bound to the horizontal
and vertical axis respectively. Fantastic! OK
so now, what happens when we try
and deploy that same code over to
our other machine? So, let's firstly make sure that the code here is saved,
which it is. Then, go in
and open it on the PC,
on the Client Machine, in this case.
And let's see what happens, if we just try and do
this. Now, let's make sure we're doing the same thing. Yeah, we've got the players. It looks
like it's all synced across, so I'm going to
go over here to the Host. I'm going to start a Host.
I didn't click pause for any particular reason there.
And make the Client ready and make sure I can move it, and then I'm going to
go over to the Client, I'm going to connect to the same IP Address as I'm
used to doing, check that it's connect, which it is,
and then, make the Client ready. Now, let's try the keys!
You see my keys here, on
this device, I'm actually just reaching over and touching the physical
computer, move both players. Why do they move
both players? I'm back on the Host, we find exactly the same thing that our
controls are moving both of the players.
OK, so what are we going to do about that? Well,
let's go and take a look! What we need to do is just leave this Update
loop, in the instance that we are
the Local Player, or we're not the Local Player rather. So, if we are
not the Local Player, then we don't want to try and translate
the player object. So, only then
one of the player objects would be effected. So,
how are we going to do that? Well, there is a method that's quite
handy and it is scoped under
network behavior, so let's
just take a look at the documentation, and you'll find that we
have here a
class
called NetworkBehavior. There it is! And then, under
that we have, if we search for local, we say isLocal
Player. Now, NetworkBehavior inherits from MonoBehavior,
and then, we have isLocalPlayer. Alright, and then here
are some examples of how you may use it. So, why don't you go
ahead and incorporate isLocalPlayer or the
check for isNotLocalPlayer, into your scripts right now,
and then come back and see what the effect
is.
[Temporary Silence]
OK, welcome back guys! So, let's just
take this piece of code, actually, straight from what they've got, and remembering
that their script inherits from NetworkBehavior. So,
we may as well do the same thing, that makes a lot of sense. So,
there is no longer a MonoBehavior but a Network
Behavior. It's got more
richness to it. Now, what is it about NetworkBehavior
that's not working? Are we missing a name space?
Well,
we're probably going to need to be using UnityEngine
.Networking;
And then, Network Behavior comes into scope and makes sense.
Alright, then we put this check in. If
not (!isLocalPlayer). So, if it's not a LocalPlayer,
then just leave, otherwise,
we carry on. Let's try and see what effect this has on
what we're doing. Alright, I'm just going to pop over
to the Client and make sure that that gets
refreshed. Look at the drop box, come back here.
Alright, so I'm going to play,
start the host, make the Client ready, check
the control, go oave here, just check my Player
Script. Yeah, my lines have come in. Great!
Start a Client and make the Client ready.
OK, I'm trying now on the Client Machine's keyboard.
Ah, it's just controling the Client. That's good! Let's go over
to the Host, and that's just controlling the Host.
Great! So, let's just pop into the script and see what we've done.
We've basically used a NetworkBehavior
.isLocalPlayer, but we're not having
to say dot, because we're inheriting from Network
Behavior. So, it just makes me wonder whether Player
is the right name for this now,
but I think I don't have a better name, right now. I just need to be a little
bit careful. I've changed what it's inheriting from, and it's a little bit more
specialist, so I'm tempted to
call it PlayerNetworkBehavior or something but it's too long, so we're going to leave
it with the Player. Just be aware that when you change the inheritance you
want to think about your naming, otherwise, this is looking good. I don't think we
need to Start, we'll put start back in if we need it, and we have a nice simple
script. Of course, you might want to put speed scaling in here, but for
now, we've achieved our goal of having
the player move on multiple devices. Now, I what would like
to do is just create a build and just have a
three way test here. OK, so we're going to Build and Run.
Oh hang on, I better make sure I'm on the right platform.
Yeah that's right, Mac, PC, Linux! So, let's Build and Run
that. Ahoy Matey Mac. That's cool! Replace
so let it compile, and then we're just going to
do a quick three way test,
in a window. So,
it's going to be tricky but tricky's fine. Let's
Maximize here in Unity. So, this is the Unity
Editor, in the Main Host Version.
OK, so let's get that spooled up and running. Start the Host,
get the Client ready, and there's the controls. Great! Now,
here is the
Mac Build. Now, this has got a fixed resolution, so I
can't resize that. And what I'm going to do is start
a Client, but we need to go to Local Host,
alright. We're looking for the Server at Local Host and
make the Client ready. Now, let's see what happens. That
moves that. That moves the right hand
one and this moves the left hand one
and that's great! And we're not actually getting this input
filtering problem now, because this window
has focus, and this is the only
thing being considered as the Local Player. And then, over here
it's only that. So that's great! I can switch between them, and even on one computer
I can quite happily control one or the other.
So, what we finally want to do is just go over to the PC on the network,
and try and connect into the Client there.
Client Ready! I'm just going to Maximize this
window, and then confusingly Minimize
or UnMaximize the Team Viewer Window,
so that what we have now is
my main Mac Editor top left and then
PC here in the bottom. And let's see
what we've got. I just stopped to
make my window a little tiny bit smaller here, on the Local
Build. But things are not quite working properly, so
the Local Build moving is not
reflecting over on the PC version,
on the PC Client, and then, the PC moving
does not appear to be effected over there either.
So, it's not all quite working right and there's a good reason for that, and we'll see
why in the next video. But we have got as far
as the two editors talking to each other, but they're doing something
slightly special with sinking the transforms, and when we introduce a build
it's not working and we'll see how to fix that in the next video.